Yeah. And then I'm dealing with 2 displays. Screen sharing is paused.
Okay.
Lilian has that that really dope, Apple monitor. You'll know about that, the good one.
Yeah, but there's no Zoom.
Got the champagne problems going on over there.
Yeah.
Okay.
Nancy.
Let's see.
Well, in the meantime, I'll give some background about what this is. So, Levers is so you're gonna get a little bit more Chicago, but on top of that this framework was in and created in part or in full by Amos Schwartz, is the former managing director of Techstar often.
And he is a dear friend. He is somebody that when I joined Techstars I immediately gravitated to flew out of Austin and shadowed his program experience and his participated in multiple screening committees for him.
He have run Pentex art programs. And has written multiple books. So he also wrote Cellmore Factor, which some people get copies of.
But the framework that Amos came up with is something based on and derived from his experience running these accelerators.
And he basically learned that there's a very clear and important pattern to successful founders who go through texts accelerators.
And they're the ones who've mastered this framework that Lilian is about to teach you.
So I'll let her take it from here, but as you can see if you notice at the bottom of this image that our very own Terri Hennecock.
Picture Chicago and D close friend. I told you a lot about Troy. Each is friendly to my one for us.
He also co-opered the book in a few sections too and I had the privilege of being one of the reviewers for the book was published during COVID.
Awesome, and thank you for the intro. So yeah, that's everything you need to know about the levers book and we're gonna talk about W 3 which is just the first chapter of 4 chapters and lovers so those are all the different quote unquote levers that you can pull for your business.
They go into revenue, financial modeling, and a couple of other things like metrics, but this one is specifically about W 3 and this workshop is actually more than what it says in the book because I've taken it and changed it to meld perfectly with the stage that you're at with jobs to be done.
So Amos never mentions jobs to be done in his book. He's aware of it, but I think that these 2 actually go extremely well hand in hand.
This is a separate framework and it's a separate set of exercises that we're going to do together and you'll see how it goes really well.
They're not related at all, but if you do both, you're gonna come out with an extremely comprehensive understanding of your customer segment and their desires and what it exactly it is that you're selling.
So let's.
Right. And just to comment briefly, Lianna, the unique contribution that Lilian has made to this is that what she just said is that she took the job to be done framework.
And she learned that the W 3 framework that taught taught by Amos and and a lot of other programs adopted.
And she found a way to like kind of connect the 2 in a meaningful way. So this is I would say very unique perspective and content that like she kinda conjured.
So very, very valuable and impressive.
Thanks. So first is understanding that proving your W 3 is with data and experimentation equals reaching repeatability.
So the whole point of this that we're doing is to be able to. Reach what we call repeatability.
That is ultimately the goal for a company that goes through our accelerators. So what does that mean? That means that you can pull lever A and you know for sure that B will happen.
Once you get to that point where your business is so predictable, we also call it predictability. Once you get there.
You'll know that putting X in gets Y out that makes you a fundable business that makes you a sustainable business and that's how you reach success.
So this is one method to getting you to that repeatability. What we mean when we say proving your W 3 with data and experiments, it means that everything that we're doing today in this workshop together is just a theory because we're just speculating.
You're gonna do some exercises. You're gonna speculate on a piece of paper. Or on your laptops.
That means nothing until you go out and test it with data and experiments. Try it. See if it's correct.
Go back to the drawing board and iterate. Once you've tested it and you have data and you've done experiments and you've proven that your W 3 is correct and spot on.
That's when you can know for sure. So we'll go into like how to test that with data.
A little bit later, you know.
Yeah, the last thing I'll add here is regarding repeatability. I don't know if I already mentioned this in my background, but I worked at Mass Venture Partners with Troy.
I actually worked with him while I was at Techstars with a part-time venture partner. And I met with I don't know, call it a hundred companies probably more.
During that time and when I observed things getting to the partner level where we're making a decision whether to write a $500,000 check, a million dollar check or, you know, whatever.
Is We would essentially ask the founder to. Do exactly what's written right here is what experiment.
Signal the repeatable like metrics that you have or the repeatable kind of patterns that you would have to require customers.
So I'm trying to say is There's a very objective pathway to getting commitments from investor to great capital.
It's a very uncomfortable pathway because it actually requires you to demonstrate with data. That you have something that's worth investing in.
But is the absolute best way to raise capital because you know what the value of the company is and what it will become based on those levers.
There's still assumptions and there's still some healthy like theoretical components to it. Because you don't know how it's actually gonna play out, but you have indicators that you're able to demonstrate.
That could make the case for you to be at a certain both value and command a certain amount of capital from an investor.
So this is a more scientific framework. Then I think a lot of the games that are played in the venture capital.
You know, art and practice that like founders become masters of and students of. We hover far more on the, the science than the dark art of.
Kind of manipulating information. So that you can, Vince, DCs the right you bid checks. That's not really what we're good at.
We're better at actually demonstrating it objectively
Yeah, instead of like storytelling or selling a dream, you have an actual like set of information that you can tell for short.
That's why it's important to validate the assumptions that we're making today. With real experiments in real iteration and data so that you can foreshore say these things.
So with that being said, we're gonna jump into some exercises, a series of exercises where we're going to theorize.
Your W 1, 2, and 3, and we'll work on it together. So as we go through every single person who is in on this call is going to do the exercise.
This is important that everyone from your team is able to articulate what it is your business does. And you might not get it right the first time.
When you go and test it, you might be completely off. And I have some stories that I'm going to talk about.
Another thing for this workshop is that most of my examples are B 2 B. So a lot of people have asked for a lot of B to B examples and this framework runs itself extremely well to both BDC and B to B, whereas maybe at the beginning of John Street on it seems like we tend more be to see.
This one is very easily applied. With very little like mental hoops to jump through. So I have some examples for you later.
So first, I want you guys to each take a piece of paper or a notes on your computer and write out who do you believe your customer is.
What are they buying and why are they buying it? So I'm gonna give you 60 s. Just the first things that come to your head, go ahead and write it down.
Okay, that's the time. So. You guys can raise your hand or just unmute.
Was that too much time to little or just right?
It's just right here.
Just right.
Just right. Yeah, just right.
Yeah, just right. Yeah, Kelvin. Okay, so the next thing I want you to write is how do you know?
Think about the data that you have, the opinions that you have, and also what you want to know that you don't know.
So basically how can you justify the things that you wrote before? Go ahead and take 90 s.
Okay, that was time. So again, was that too much time too little or just right?
Definitely.
I would have reversed the times with the previous question.
That's right.
I was I would have reversed the times with the previous question.
Say it again. Okay, so too much time for this, too little time to write down what it is.
Definitely too much time for this. I was done in 10 Si was looking at my phone.
Does everyone agree? Yeah. Okay. Wow, okay, so this ideology.
Might feel tvs but that's the point so the point of this is to get into the nitty gritty like deep down so that you can better understand your roadmap for the next 13 weeks and beyond.
So remembering that this is all a theory and you're just taking this to test and go validate.
So everything you just wrote down is just speculation on our parts, right? So we're going to break up into groups of 2 companies.
With each company going into the same breakout room. So everyone's gonna have a partner company. And what I want to happen, I'm gonna go through what's gonna happen and then I'm gonna put you in your breakout rooms and I'll give you prompts via the chat.
So everyone's gonna go into assigned breakout rooms with another company and the CEOs if they're present, otherwise another co-founder can do it.
The CEOs are gonna do this exercise and everyone else can follow along. So. We're going to have the first CEO explain to the second CEO their W 3 that they just wrote down their who went and won.
The listening company should just write down what they're hearing and what questions they have. So they're the scribe so they should not talk.
The next 90 s we're gonna let that second company, that second CEO repeat back what they heard to the first CEO and share any questions they have with the first CEO.
The first CEO shouldn't speak. They should just also absorb what the second company is saying back then we're gonna flip Now the second company, the second CEO is going to explain to the first founder, the first CEO.
What their W 3 is and the first company will just listen. And write it down and then they'll repeat back what they heard and share questions.
So we're gonna do that. So 4 sets of 90 s. So I'm gonna go ahead and have Chloe open up the breakout rooms and you guys will see your company name and you can go ahead and jump right in.
And I will give you a prompts in the chat with timing.
Is everyone able to find their breakout rooms?
I didn't get one. Yep.
Chloe, can you start inviting people if you can?
Yeah, you should be able to manually select the one with your company name, but I'll start assigning people.
Oh, thank you.
Oh, got it. I didn't know that. Sorry about that.
Just
Okay, so yeah, okay, that makes sense. I thought it was just the CEOs being put into the rooms.
Nearly pick your company.
Yeah, me too.
I was like, now, to see who all the non CEOs are across code.
No, no, you guys get to go in and do the exercise too. Just only one person sk gonna be able to talk.
Okay.
So follow along. I'm gonna start the timer now. So go ahead and jump in.
So, Lilian, how do I select? I'm sorry, I'm lost here.
Yeah, they should be a breakout. There should be a breakout rooms tool at the bottom. Do you see where it says breakout rooms?
And then it'll say your name. It'll say your company name.
Oh, I see. Thank you. Gotcha. Thank you.
Okay, that's everybody.
Okay.
Oh, 10 day. Do you have?
Yeah.
There we go.
Which is just us in the AI.
There's 1 min left for this first round.
Oh, Marian.
Okay.
Cly, can you call us the recording?
So what did you think? Was there anything that
You want to share? Does anybody want to, unmute and let us know how that felt?
Okay.
I want to say something it felt really easy to follow because we were allowed to take notes so I was able to we were almost You know, I'm a fast diaper, so I could almost type word for word what I was hearing.
No.
So I'm not sure if that was super productive but yeah it was also very well explained so
Okay, we're in person. I normally make people use pen and paper so it's not as easy to just follow along but yeah I totally agree.
I usually you can kind of type it down. Welcome.
Yeah, I thought it was great exercise as well. Had a really good conversation with Dan. And, one of my key takeaways is just help.
I guess it's proximity to the problem. I kind of gonna being from agency perspective and also from a client perspective, you just offer, wouldn't really get into the nitty gritty around.
Yeah, how did you know some of the assumptions it was you could feel it was first hand you could feel like he was living and breathing the problem area so yeah it was really good to kind of here and break that down.
Oh wow, so yeah, sounds like you guys had some similarities and you were able to go even more into detail.
I'm curious if anyone and David I let you go 1 s. I'm curious if anybody found a difficulty or maybe like a barrier.
In between explaining the problem. Maybe you are very close to the problem and you got someone that's not as close to problem and maybe it was a little bit difficult.
Yeah, Marcel and then Snow, we'll go back to David.
That's okay.
Oh, I don't know if the answer to questions you just asked. But we were, we were both B to B to C.
I found it really interesting that we got mashed. And yes, it is answering your question. It is a challenge.
When you have when you are BTV to see trying to explain who you're selling to. Cause it's a 2 way street here.
So we found on those similarities and it was interesting talking to Jeremy.
Interesting. Okay, snow.
Yeah, I actually read the 3 parts of the levers yesterday. So I try to follow the guide.
But actually, I, it doesn't that I try to explain what our customers buying instead of what we are selling.
But in the meantime, the meanwhile, but it makes the listeners difficult to understand what our product is.
I'm not sure which one is better. Yeah.
Yeah. That's interesting. Yeah, we're gonna get into that with W 2 and then I want you to tell me at the end if maybe it still seems unclear.
David, did you wanna go?
Yeah, mine is. Kinda different, but I was just kinda your first question, but it was around.
We kind of had very similar businesses kind of in a way to the point where we spoke to partner and partner was like I've actually experienced a problem you're trying to solve.
And I wish this existed a year ago kind of thing. And so. I think because of that we Almost like knew exactly what the other person was trying to build because the same space so interesting, maybe on purpose.
Curious to see what opposite would be like.
That's really cool. Yeah, I'm curious too. It's interesting that we kind of randomly did that.
So a lot of you ended up with people that understood. That's interesting. Christy?
Yeah, it was interesting to, Just pay attention to when you're explaining it like acronyms, right, or certain phrases that you think you know or is common in your industry, but for the other person, your audience, they may not be familiar.
So always be mindful of that. And then also, at least the way when I was explaining what you know the 3 why the 3 W's.
I was kinda generalizing it and that I was trying to make it a simple but then it didn't get to the heart of like what is the actual thing that we provide to get to that benefit.
Yeah, it's hard, right? Cause you want them to truly understand what your business is. So you can't dumb it down too much, but when there's not that inherent knowledge.
In that space, it's a little bit difficult. But we'll meet a lot of people that aren't from that space that you still need to explain it to like advisors, investors, etc.
So it's definitely hard. Antonio?
So one observation is, the first question I didn't know where, to put the customers, like kind of the vision that we have for the customer, which is consumer products versus the the first customer switches where we're targeted targeting to and and so I decided in the end to use our first customers the ones that we are doing the, job to be done interviews for.
And actually it was nice to see that we have a lot of clarity on that. Now we're try to validate our assumptions.
With these interviews so at least it was nice to see that we have some clarity we have some clarity who we are targeting.
And the other observation I had is that when the last question around how do you know like the first thing that popped up to my mind was our competitors are making familiar in ARR.
And so like the fact that there is already a market for it, but we can do it better. give, give me some solid things, but I think I'm gonna feel much better when I see those 1015 interviews.
And try to learn from that.
Yeah, well, there were so many good nuggets in there. So, yes. Having competitors in the space already making money is absolutely a validation.
A lot of people think it's the other way around, but we want to see that interest in that market.
So completely agree there and also you I'm so glad you brought up the point should I be tackling like my giant vision for the market or the first few customers we're gonna get into that today but you chose absolutely correctly because those first customers are the ones that we're focusing on at this moment.
It's almost like the big vision doesn't exist at this time. We're all about that first segment.
That's really what today is about. So, 100%, Antonio, Matthew.
Hey, yeah, I thought it was very interesting exercise and to me kind of eye opening. To hear the questions and the way I read it like if there are questions to clarify whether how why and what .
It means we haven't nailed it And so we need to do that so that we use this like.
30 s to make it like crystal clear on this 3 W's to whoever. We're talking to.
That's exactly right, Matthew. And I have a slide for that. If you can't articulate your W 3 in 3 min which is how long we gave each of you how can you grab someone's attention in much less time so this was a controlled environment but imagine being an environment like a networking event or you meet an investor in an elevator you know the age old principal of an elevator pitch you have much less time
to grab someone's attention 15 to 20 s so we need to have you guys locked down extremely crispy, concise, and clear, able to articulate it in a very fast but also potent manner so that you can grab people's attention and have them extremely understand it in an extremely deep way in a very short amount of time.
So that I know that's exactly what you're getting at, Matthew. Pardo.
Yeah, it was kinda echo what David mentioned earlier, what. We're basically within the same umbrella, but different categories of issues that we're trying to solve under that massive umbrella within the vintage space and they're they detailed it enough they were articulate enough that it was so succinct yet detailed enough that I was able to by the end when they finished to know like I could have definitely used
something like you guys you know a year and a half back. During all the crazy hectic market craziness so yeah that was our experience.
That's awesome. Okay, kudos to David and his team. That's really great to hear.
Philippa?
Well, yeah, one thing that I noticed in myself was like who do I believe my customer is and it's like retailers and it's like okay that's fine but it's very, you know, you know and many people say like banks that some team here.
I say like Duane say banks or credit companies I think we have to narrow that now finally to who in the company like product managers or category managers or e-commerce managers or whoever.
I think that's, that's the customer. Find out, you know, the person, than the company.
Exactly, and we'll narrow that down right now. So let's jump into W one.
So now we're gonna get into each. So you guys made your hypotheses. Let's try and narrow those down and I'll teach you about each one.
So first we have.
Side note, which is until you have data, you shouldn't go, too far in any one direction.
So Amos in his book talks about being lost in the middle of nowhere and if you're lost if you just get dropped in the middle of the desert, you don't you're not just gonna pick one direction at random and head there because you have a lot to lose if that direction is wrong.
You're gonna die of thirst. You're not gonna make it. So instead what like most people would do is start looking for clues, look for signposts, try to collect additional information along the way to prove whether or not you're headed in the right direction.
That way you can make your best judgment and give up like all the energy you have left into trying to find.
Than a nearby city and refuge. So the same is true here. I really like that story because You should picture yourselves as that person when we're making a startup, we're really dropped in a desert like there's no roadmap, you're making it up as you go.
I'm sure all of you feel that way. And you don't have the resources to just choose the wrong direction.
We want to make sure that we're making the best guess before we go too far in any one direction.
And that's really what the point here is that this is going to help you better inform what direction to put all your resources behind.
Another side note is that everyone on your team needs to understand and believe in your W 3. So I got at this at the beginning a little bit, but even though the CEOs were the ones doing the exercise.
And even though only some of your team members are here in the workshop today, once you've gotten your W 3 down pat, it's really important that everybody in your company can thoroughly understand and believe in your companies.
The amount of times I've seen someone get a key strategic investor or a very key mentor, board member.
Advisor from a member of their team who is not a leader who is not maybe even C-suite, but because they understood the vision and we're able to articulate it has been very plentiful.
So I've seen that a lot of times. It's not just always going to be the CEO or COO.
Getting those key connections. It's really anyone and as many team members as you have that can better articulate it that's more people out in the world making these connections for you and it's less missed opportunities.
So make sure that everybody on your team is able to articulate the W 3 that you decide on. So that you can grab every.
Opportunity that comes you way. So with that, let's go into W one. Who do I believe is my customer?
So this is your first of the W. Threes. And this is your first theory on the direction you want to go into.
So at full scale, like Antonio is saying, this is your total addressable market. This is your vision for your entire customer segment at full scale but for now We're gonna start narrow.
So this is not your end goal. So if you set your W one is something extremely small, which is what we want.
That doesn't mean that you're gonna have a small business. That means that you're capturing that market right now and we will slowly expand out.
This should be uncomfortable. So even if your W one segment is point 0 0 1% of the entire market that you eventually want to get you'll have the absolute confidence that each of those people is meant to be in your targeted audience that you can make a sale with those people.
So just keep in mind this is not where you're ending. It's just where you're starting so that you can get a really deep understanding of all the attributes and circumstances of your ideal customer.
And there's no such thing as too narrow. My favorite part of this presentation that I like to bring in because I studied this in engineering school as the diffusion of innovation.
So the for those who haven't seen this before, some people call it the innovators curve, or the diffusion of innovation or the curve of adoption.
This is how people adopt a new technology. So there are many different things that people call it, but it's always the same segments.
So we have innovators and then early doctors. Then we have the chasm. If I anyone's ever heard the book crossing the chasm, it's referencing this.
Then we have the early majority. Late majority and laggards. So I always start off by saying the laggards we want to just basically pretend don't exist.
That's for people like Google who are now getting the 80 year old people in the nursing home to use Google.
So that's like the last bit of the market that people will ever be able to capture.
Yes. I did. I spoke to her and then.
What we want to focus on. Is not just the innovators, but. The very, very, very small original block of the innovators.
And if I was on the in person on the board, I would point out literally just the black line that that arrow is pointing at.
So not even the likely block, just a little black line, the point 0 0 1% of innovators.
That is what we want to start with. Because if we start with those adopters, we get it spot on.
It's very easy to expand those concentric circles out and just make that market bigger and bigger.
And I have some examples. Later that I'll talk about. So the goal is that with a hundred percent confidence you could sell to every person that you put in that W one The important note here is that I said every single person in this criteria that you talk to in a sales context would result in the sale.
So I don't want to conflate that with jobs to be done. So when you're doing your customer discovery, you're not trying to sell them.
But the idea is that once you do your customer discovery, your screening criteria is who you're going to talk to to get those insights and through those insights you will validate your W one and that W one segment which may or may not overlap with your screening criteria, your W one segment.
If you go and talk to each of them in a sales context, would a hundred percent result in a sale because you just know that their situation is exactly right.
To have your product come and help them make progress in their life. Does that make sense? Does anybody have any questions there?
Cause that's a really important distinction.
Okay, so moving.
Oh, sorry.
Good question. In the in the division. Diffusion of innovation. You said that the focus really should be is it between the early adopters and the that those first 2 blocks.
Right. Just.
Got it.
No, it should be so we're focusing on the innovators that 2.5 like nobody here is past the innovator stage.
Okay.
We know each of your companies a lot of us think that we're way further. That's good news though because that means you have huge markets to capture.
But we're all in the innovators stage and we're not even in the 2.5% of your total market that you could get.
We're focusing and if you are trying to capture that right now I'm asking you to narrow it so that you can be more accurate.
You're not going to be able to scale as much if you don't have this extreme accuracy.
So we're not even focusing on the 2.5%. We're focusing on less than 1%.
So we're at the very, very beginning of the curve. That's why I say like even just like the left hand black line of the innovators block.
That 2.5%. We're focusing on like point 0 0 1%. Very small with extreme accuracy and specificity and then we'll expand out very quickly.
Good question, Jeremy. Brian?
Yeah, thanks.
I'm just wondering, I'm just trying to make sure that I've covered this.
Is it safe to then say that We're trying to get a monopoly in a very small market.
It's capitalistic. Okay.
Yeah. Yeah, I like that. Yeah. In a very, very small and you can be the winner in that, even if there's a competitor, like you know this is where you can start and get that niche.
And then you can expand outward and jobs to be done is to help you validate that. Good question.
Kevin?
Yeah, hi, Oliver. So the, We're like if you were to give an example of this.
For instance, like we've narrowed ours down to let's say the fine dining industry with fine dining restaurants.
How could we even, what would be an example where we could get that even further? It'd be like a specific like type of Find dining restaurant like how because that's that's a small niche in the market, but it still is probably higher than that point 0 0 1%.
That you're looking to get to. Yeah.
Yeah, that's way higher. So you're thinking a lot about attributes, which is part of this, but what about circumstance?
So like what is that find dining restaurant going through? To like even have the problem in the first place.
What is specific about the struggle that they're going through that you know you can help them make progress.
Okay.
Do you do you want to spit ball out? An answer? We can call back to you after we have everyone write their W ones.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, sure. Yeah. That yeah, let me just take a minute to.
Another frame, another frame of reference for this as you all have used and probably know is bottom up as opposed to top down.
A lot of thoughts I hear from how people are thinking of screening things is you think from the top big market and you work your way down to something narrow.
Start with one person. What are they going through? What's their deal? Describe them and then go, okay, is there another person like this?
Maybe, maybe not. I don't know. But at least you know that one person's hyper specific step from stance.
Yes. So wherever we. Right here. So once you know your who intimately.
You can identify every attribute of what makes that who a perfect customer. So once you've validated your theory of your who, this is how you expand.
You'll have that really narrow one. You're gonna validate it through customer discovery and then you can make a list of attributes and situations that this narrow segment is in.
And you can the book explains how you can test each of those attributes. For that 1, 5, 10 people and expand your base outward with a high success rate.
So if you just decide it's fine dining restaurants who are in this very specific circumstance. Maybe it's also fast casual restaurants who are in this very specific circumstance.
Maybe it's something different about the circumstance that makes them a prime customer, but when you can pinpoint that, then you can start expanding outward.
Into bigger and bigger markets. Does does that make sense? Cool. So most people wonder at this point, like, yeah, no problem.
Completely. Yeah. Thank you.
Most people wonder at this point, what's the difference between this and JTVD? Well, they're both related to starting with that narrow group of customers.
W 3 is a theory about your business and then JTVD I call the tool to verify that.
So we're making these theories then we've chosen our screening criteria to go out and validate it and part of the learning questions in your head should be is my theory for what my initial customer segment.
Is correct. And you can validate that through these interviews that you're doing. And if you do it well, something magical happens.
So if you can identify your W one properly, it will directly inform your product roadmap. And your financial model in a very predictable way.
So again, we're after that predictability. You are sure that you know like I would pull this lever and a hundred percent of these people will buy.
You can that can inform your financial model and your product roadmap because now you know who you're selling to what their situation exactly is and you don't have to guess so you can start building for those people and make even more sales.
Here's my first example. Loom filter is a company from our summer, 2,022 class in Chicago.
And there are software engineering management platform. Thank Jira. And they thought when they came in and they were sitting in this workshop, they thought that they were selling to CTOs of medium to large.
So through understanding W 3, they actually realized and then after validating it with jumps to be them.
They discovered that their W one back in 2022 was actually chief innovation officers of companies with 50 to 200 employees who had recently experienced a slowdown in software engineering due to like an error in organization.
So either they missed a bug or, like a project didn't get off its feet.
They had a list of dilemmas, but one they were talking to the wrong person, which I'll get into later.
To they had a different size of company. They actually needed to scale much smaller. And 3, it was that circumstance.
So when they realized that they could target people who had recently had this issue. Their sales skyrocketed.
So they started targeting a different audience. After this. Another side note for 2 sided marketplaces, which I know we have a couple of, 2 sided marketplaces have 2 who's.
2 W ones. So first focus on the one that gives you money and then you can go back later and do this exercise with your team to do the other half.
Okay, so, David, I will take your question while everyone else starts writing their who. So go ahead and take 3 min, define your who as narrowly and specifically as possible.
Write down all the known attributes you believe are in your who. So that you can go test them.
So known attributes, scenarios that they're in, circumstances that they've had. David, how can I help?
Maybe this exercise might be. To answer my question, but it was like, I really like how. You went from those CTOs to like It was almost like you know exactly who you're looking for.
I was hoping you would share more about that process, but I think this exercises this going to.
Yeah, well, if you want to know about, specifically, they made that hypothesis and they were selling to CTOs and they knew it wasn't working.
So they actually made a hypothesis in this workshop, maybe it's CIOs and they only change that.
So then they had to validate that in jobs freedom. They started talking to CIOs and through that they heard someone say something about like, you know, if this was at my last company, I would need it or something like that.
That's
I can't remember. Maybe Neil can remember, but there was a statement made. And that gave them the hint.
Maybe we need to skew smaller. So when they started talking to CIOs at smaller companies and then they realized that there were companies who had these dilemmas happening and those people were the ones that had this like burning problem.
And so it was a lot of iteration and validation through talking to actual customers. Based on a hypothesis that they make like right now.
Does that make sense?
Yeah. Thank you.
Okay, a little less than 2 min left.
Okay, I'm gonna pick on Kevin since we said we would circle back Did you come up with?
Oh, is he still here? We'll give him a second. Okay, in the meantime, does anybody want to share their W one?
Okay, if nobody else does
Yeah, go ahead, Mitcha.
Sure. So, okay, narrow it down. Professional musicians who are trying to make more money from music so that they can focus more on their art and worry less about survival.
They typically play a lot of gigs, but they don't make a lot of money from them.
They are either buskers or gig musicians or DIY concert organizers that you know work with a small band.
They typically don't have merch, but they thought about getting it and never took the step.
And they want to level up their career but usually don't have a manager representative yet. At the major label or anything like that.
That was extremely specific. I really like that. In the very beginning there was something that could be more specific.
Can you read the first few lines? Again, just the beginning.
I could tell.
Oh yeah, the first one actually the first one was reused for the first time from the first time that I tried which was professional musicians who are trying to make more money from music so they can focus more on their art and worry less about survival.
Yeah, so trying to make more money for the music. It's like I was originally gonna say what does that mean but I see that you expanded upon it because you explained they're either busking they're doing like they don't have a manager so those things are extremely specific.
Do you see how they're also circumstantial? They're also like about a set of scenarios that the person is in.
So that person could be like any gender, they could be from anywhere, they could be any age, that it's not demographic and that will help you so much.
So I really liked that example. That was a really good job.
Yeah, thank you.
Okay, so we'll move forward and I'll pick more examples for the next 2.
But let's talk about W 2. What do I believe my customer is buying from me? So I heard someone at the beginning who had read this before saying like the difference between what they are buying versus what they are selling.
This is a very important distinction. The customer actually doesn't care what you're selling. They care what you do for them.
So the difference here is actually the job, which is exactly what Nail and I talked to you about last week.
So you're gonna lead with how the product impacts their life from their eyes, not what you believe you're selling.
So this is the same thing as the quarter in drill versus the quarter inch hole in the wall, which is exactly what we said.
My favorite example of this is when you go to get a haircut. The person is selling a haircut.
If you ask any hair stylist with this cell, it's cutting your hair. You know, you get shorter hair, maybe you can do a different hairdo, but What are you buying?
Like you personally, I'm asking you guys, what are each of you buying when you go to get a hair cut?
I have an I have an answer for what is the most common, but everyone has their own. So what are you buying when you go get your haircut, Malcolm?
Yes.
You find that confidence that crispy look, you know, you heading to the weekend, none better than Friday evening haircut. Are you ready?
Yeah.
That's exactly I feel the same like confidence all the way. Nelson, what are you buying?
Yep.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly what he said. I always get my haircut like before a big event or an important meeting or something like that could look like a shaggy dog, you know, working from home, but.
I know when I go out and I have to present myself, I want my best.
Exactly.
Okay. Yeah.
Convenience for everyone but me but it's cause I shave my head myself and that's convenient, but back when I didn't.
I didn't have what to take or the tools or the know-how. So the service.
That's true. Says another thing we're buying with most services, right? You're buying, because like a lot of them we could spend a long time learning, but not everyone wants to invest that time.
Marcel.
Change.
Change. Looking to. Looking for a change.
In just adding I've heard a lot of that. A lot of people get breakup haircuts, you know, gotta change your life.
Hello.
Hmm.
Also just feeling pampered. Like getting a blow out and really feeling like. It's the service, you know?
Hmm. So you're
Would expand on that a bit more. What do you mean by that? Like pampered to what, to what extent?
Yeah, like, said health care. It's like. You go to get your hair cut, but it's like getting your hair washed and the feeling of having someone wash your hair and like really like pampering you it's a it's like the feeling of being.
Yeah, self care, I guess.
See you, Brian.
I wanna dig a little deeper there because I'm not, I'm not convinced that it's at that level.
Like that what you're describing is what you're getting, but what are you seeking through that?
Yeah.
And then that the
Like a feeling of relaxation. It's almost like, cause getting a haircut is almost like getting a massage, you know, like you, it's like a a break from reality.
And it's like having someone. Yeah, provide you with something that you.
Yeah It doesn't come out of nowhere though. Like what are the causal influences to like seeking that out?
Hmm.
Do you just decide one day? Like I just need to get pampered. I just need that or the things going on in your life that would trigger you wanting to do so.
Yeah. I think it kind of goes.
That's what we're trying to get you all to think through. You gotta think through the other level.
You can't just go, it's this feeling that I want. It why do you want the feeling?
Right.
And you keep unpacking those layers. Maybe something was going on in your life where you decided that you wanted to treat yourself.
Hmm.
But what will that what is that thing going on? That's what we need to all the time thinking more about.
I love it.
Exactly. So Jeremy, Dan and Antonio, go ahead and throw what you're buying in the chat because I'm watching the time so we're gonna have to move forward but.
Those were great. So my favorite thing is confidence. So like that's that's what I had heard the most times when I asked and that's personally why I like to go and get a haircut for.
But basically if you are a hairstylist, you're not marketing that confidence if you don't know this kind of thing.
So that's a really simple example of what we're trying to get at. The W 2 also isn't always concrete and sometimes it's more than one thing.
That's kind of what Jala was saying and what Neil was trying to get at. It's not always concrete.
It's not always just a one word like this is what I'm buying. Sometimes more nebulous and you have to try and like pinpoint that because humans are very fickle and hard to describe, very complex.
And sometimes it's more than one thing, meaning that. You could have 2 groups of people that, you know, have 2 different W two's and maybe they're related, maybe they're not.
Maybe one person is buying it for 2 different reasons. That's actually what we call in jobs to be done a small hire and a big hire.
There's always one reason that trumps the other. Also, your W 2 can help inform your W one.
So if you're who is right, you'll have data that shows your who cares about your what but if you're facing problems figuring out your what you should probably go back to your W one so everything builds on each other so if you're building it on an unstable foundation you're gonna sense problems as we start moving up.
And you can always go back and reddress the bottom layers. So with that, let's take 3 min.
Right about your what? Think about your what in context of what you do for your customer, not just what you do, but what you do for them.
Write down a few theories of what you believe your W 2 is, what you believe your customer is going to buy or is buying from you and lead with how the product is going to impact your customers lives.
Rather than any amazing features you've built that you would like to sell to them. So it's a lot more empathizing and taking a step back from how much we love what we're building and believing it and put yourself in the context of them.
Jeremy, do you have a question?
You know, sorry, I left my head raised from the last. Okay.
Oh, you're good. Okay, 3 min.
How can you demonstrate to the customer that that value is being given through your product. For example, at business.
Dot com, Amos gives a great example. He used to be involved with business.com and They are doing lead gen, selling insights into competitors products.
This is in like, 2,000. They measure or their their why is that they want to collect insights into competitors products to get additional revenue.
They measure that value as additional revenue brought in by each of the leads when they convert to sales. So just knowing that the person is buying into the competitors products and that would they want those to be revenue?
Doesn't matter as much as knowing exactly how they measure it. Doesn't matter as much as knowing exactly how they measure it.
So for B to B, it's really, it's really straightforward. If it's revenue that they want, how are they measure it?
So for B 2 B, it's really, it's really straightforward. If it's revenue that they want, how are they measuring that revenue?
So like this is not come with specifically measuring their customers were specifically measuring business.com value that they were providing to their company.
As the additional revenue that was brought in by each of the leads from the software platform as they converted to sales.
So they were able to tweak their product. To do those things to them. The amount of people that would see value from it.
So it's a BDB example. It's a little more nebulous, but You can see how if you don't.
Show the customer that the value they want is something that your product can provide to their life. It means nothing to them.
This is something that a lot of people don't understand exactly because they may see their customer as less intelligent or less aware.
But it's usually a problem on our end that we're not demonstrating the value in the way that the customer measures it.
Because they're never gonna change the way that they measure or seek to see that value. Another example could be a workout app or something that you're signing up for for fitness.
If your fitness goals are different than the things that that app is willing to. Give you. For example, if you sign up and it's a weight loss app, but you're interested in being toned and gaining muscle.
Even if they're helping you quote unquote get more healthy. It's not in the way that you are interested.
You're not showing that I'm fit in the in the way that I measure value. You have to meet me where I'm at if I'm going to be a customer.
For B 2 B, there are 2 W. This is huge. There's the business as a whole.
And there's the decision maker as a person. Which is a lot more emotional, social. Business as a whole a lot more functional.
The second one is very important at the start. If you can figure out how the decision maker as an actual human being measures the value you're bringing them, then you can know their motivation.
And why they're saying yes to buying your product or service. For example, back to business.com.
If the company measures value, so the business as a whole from your lead gen software by the extra revenue it brings in.
But the individual decision maker, say the VP of sales. If the individual decision maker has no incentive to surpass their individual revenue goals on a quarterly basis, that they already consistently meet without your product, then there's no motivation.
So this actually happens to business.com. They realize they needed to go back and adjust their W one.
To from selling to VP of sales. To selling to VP of sales who have an incentive program to surpass revenue goals to not only meet them, but to increase.
So basically getting commission off of all of the extra revenue that they bring in based on the, that is how they found their niche because it was people who wanted to go above and beyond and who wanted to go above and beyond and who were directly incentivized.
A lot of people who wanted to go above and beyond and who were directly incentivized. A lot of people passed up on their software because they said we already hit it.
We and I don't need to make anymore. Even though the business as a whole really wants to make extra revenue.
So that's kind of, that's how you can see the difference between the person and the business.
People are a lot more self involved. They really only want to do what they're directing and said to vice to do, even if it's a no brainer for the business as a whole.
And that's just a hard reality. Not everybody works in the in the same vein as just thinking about the business future.
We're all humans at art. It's not even a bad thing to think about your customers.
Matthew?
Sorry me again, yeah, this is super important for B twob and not to challenge that statement, but just wondering if our data to support.
Not that the decision maker as a person is. As equally important as the business as a whole. Why?
Only at this stage and the day behind that is just if like just like bloom filter if you're selling to the wrong decision maker and you're not getting there why so you're they're selling to the wrong one so your W one is wrong or your W 2 or 3 are wrong where you're not selling them the correct thing or in the way that they measure their value, you're just gonna get a know.
The hardest thing with B to B is just getting in there. So that's why we say when we're at this small.
Stage of company. The second one is the most important. We're selling to a person. We're selling to one decision maker.
If you can't get past that decision maker, you're never going to get in. So I've seen so many of my companies that are B 2 B just have these very long drawn-out sales cycles that always end in nose because they're just not getting that foot in the door.
If you can capture that decision-maker and they can be your champion, you Of course your product aligns with the value that you can bring to the business.
It's a lot more a lot of people get hung up on. I'm trying to sell it to the business.
I'm gonna make them more money. Why did they keep saying no? That's why I like that business.
Dot com example. Of course it's a no-brainer for a company X to hire business.
Calm to give them lead gen if they've shown consistently that it can bring in more revenue. But the reason is the problem is when we have a startup, when business.
Dot com was very small. They're selling to a person. They're having to demonstrate to a single human being that they can provide that value and that it's meaningful to them.
A lot of these execs do not operate only in the context of the business. I think it's hard to understand as an entrepreneur because the CEO is the business, right?
Like you live in breathe the business and it almost seems synonymous. But in these, when we're doing enterprise and we're selling to medium to large businesses.
It's a lot more disconnected. That's why we have to think about the people as people.
They're not extremely connected emotionally or even just like incentively with the businesses goals. They have their own personal goals.
Their goals are usually to move up to get recognition within the company. To be personally financially incentivized as a bonus or something like that.
They have their own personal goals. So just saying that we're going to bring the company more money is not enough.
Cause they're usually a hassle they have to go through to onboard to champion your business to get it okayed with the with the higher ups and they're not willing to do that if there's not a personal goal.
Does that make sense back?
This becomes, yeah, this becomes more real in practice than on paper or conceptually. Once you start actively selling to businesses, you start to very quickly realize the human elements that are at play when it comes to different like decision makers and stakeholders throughout the hierarchy that you have to navigate.
So, that's the journey that we're all gonna go on together for some of you is like getting in there and actually trying to actively sell.
Like there's a variety of circumstances that have human interest elements to it even in the B 2 B stage.
People that understand that upfront are the most successful because a lot of people just treat businesses as businesses and not people.
Christy?
So in, I know, works for this right now. With enterprise sales
Do are we gonna cover like stakeholder mapping? Cause it may not just be the decision maker.
It could be an influencer. There could be someone else that we need to also understand. Their why and how we can fulfill that.
Yeah, no, did you wanna answer about?
Sorry, I missed that one. What was can you restate it Christy?
Yep.
Okay. Yeah, so I get this part, but I know with enterprise, especially with large large enterprises, there's this concept of stakeholder mapping because it may not just go to the decision maker but leading up the decision maker there's influencer that never sponsors.
Will you help us kind of navigate that or are we just gonna Just focus.
Oh, of course, yeah. I mean, that's like this whole program. All we're trying to do is help you all figure out the best place to sell and grow.
So stakeholder mapping is totally par for the course. We'll call it different fancier things, I guess.
And then on top of that, the ER is they're going to be super hands on every week with you on top of myself.
So yeah, we got.
San Antonio.
So would this apply also to B 2 B to C right because we are B twobc and so the customers pay for the service but ultimately we need to convince also business to say we're going to increase your customer the number of customers you're gonna have because our service is cheaper.
It's easier to use.
Yeah, so I would say you can split that in your mind into 2 so you have the B 2 B and the BBC.
And so for the B 2 B where you're even though they're not your customers, you're still needing a yes from them.
This would apply and then the rest is the Y from the customer. So you have 2 as well. Almost like a 2 sided marketplace.
I would treat it like that and you have to go through and do W 3 for both and this would be true for the businesses that you need that okay from.
So you need to feel free to adjust your W one and 2 as you think about your W 3. So just like Bloomfield had to Go back and adjust their W one and just like business.
Calm had to adjust what they were selling and exactly to who. They had to change the situation in their W one.
As you're thinking about your W 3, all 3 theories need to be in alignment. So if you're finding trouble, definitely go back and revisit the first 2 that you wrote.
And also remember that you need to go out and test these. So everything that you have on your paper after today or on your notes stock, those are all speculation.
I just can't hammer that home enough. Do not think that just because we wrote it and maybe you have.
A lot of confidence and conviction in what you have written. It's still really important to talk to the customers, to validate the assumptions that we're making to them.
So let's take 3 min. Write down your theory on the why question, how you believe your customers will measure them and how you can assure you have the right tools to measure it on your end.
Okay. Something I wanna highlight here before we share is that There's a key line here, which is.
How can you ensure you have the tools to measure it? Why is that important? Think back if you've ever received an email from maybe something you signed up for where they before you even wonder or think about canceling, they consistently report back to you at either how much money they're saving you, how much they've done for you.
Giving you these reports. It could be a rewards program that you signed up for or like credit card and they tell you like you've earned X.
In rewards this month or maybe you signed up for something a service so that they could do something for you and they have helped you with X number of things this month or this year.
Basically giving you this report of how they know you measure value and they want to demonstrate that value before you.
Then question if they're giving it to you. You as their customer measures value and then being able to report it back to you is so strong because it basically mitigates any sort of doubt in their mind and they will never turn.
That's why it's so powerful to be able to have the right tools to measure value in the way your customers sees it.
You can just show them like base camp is a good example. They'll maybe show you, oh, you've completed X projects.
Like these are all the projects you've gotten done and it's all listed in the archive.
You feel really accomplished and it feels amazing and you're happy that you had base camp to do it.
Does anyone want to share the W 3 that they wrote down? We have time for maybe 2. 2 examples.
Always up for it if nobody is. Again, going to Monopolies. Okay, cool.
Yeah, go ahead.
So why? Because they can see that the amount of work they put into their music careers does not reflect properly in their earnings.
So it's not proportional. They will measure Cicada's effectiveness in the amount of money they make out of it and also in the way that other artists and fans feel about them.
Example, do they think that the band is more legit because they have a store and merch? And we can measure it by building a really good dashboard that shows how much money they made and how many new followers they got and all the other benefits exactly what you were saying I wrote that down like 10 s before you started saying that.
I think that's really cool. So that is a great example of how this W 3 exercise can directly inform your product roadmap.
So I wouldn't go in invest. Time and money into building that until you've validated that by talking to customers because that's completely a theory right now.
But if you validate that, that is something that has helped people move the needle in the past or that's the problem they really have.
Building that out in your product roadmap can help you increase sales so much because now you know exactly their circumstance and the value that they want.
Not only will it increase sales, that'll decrease churn. So once you get those customers you're demonstrating that value and they want to stay.
I really like that. That's a great idea on how to demonstrate the value from their eyes. You might not have thought that like showing that they're legit means anything.
That's not really what you were selling. For so I really like that, Nelson.
Yeah, the, I've definitely been thinking for the W 3 that you know this is This is a problem that people are trying to solve and so solving it is a 0 to one but quantifying how solving the problem, the saving them time or money or whatever is an interesting thing to reflect back to people.
So I think the stats are good. But, The idea of the rewards program really resonates with me because I think that people are much more likely to value something that is feels like a positive to them than they are to like value the opportunity cost like oh I save this much by you know avoiding you know this penalty or something I'd rather Everybody would rather take the reward.
And so. This is something that I was batting around with. With some folks I was talking to and I think it just pops.
Popped up the feature list as being a great way to reinforce a good behavior.
Yeah, so another product roadmap that's being informed by this. I like that so much.
So you can go and you can validate that. You can talk to people who have hired similar products and see how that has changed their life, how they feel about it, or products that don't have that and see why they fired them.
And that's a good way to validate if that's something that you should invest. Your time into building out.
I like that a lot. Thanks for everyone who has volunteered. We'll just close out and then I'll stick around to answer all the questions in the chat.
So now that you have your W 3, how can you go test it? Again, broken record here, jobs to be done.
Which is what we're currently doing. So that's why I moved up this workshop to today so that you guys could have all of this knowledge in your head as you're going through this first set of work of interviews.
So basically we want you guys to go and do your interviews. As soon as you have that screening criteria down pat with Kate.
And then on Friday of week one, we're gonna have you guys do a checkpoint presentation kind of saying how many you've done so far and what you've learned.
Let's go through the Jobsuit on statement again. If you remember, it's in the form when I So I want to so that I.
I've taken the liberty to put the W 3 on top of this because it really melds perfectly.
It's when I, which is the who or the situation and attributes, the circumstance that the who is in.
I want to. What are they buying? What are they hiring? What is the desire?
So that I and that's why that's the outcome. That's the value. And then on top of that, you know in the back of your mind how they measure that.
But from the customers perspective, you can write those jobs sweetheart statements. With the W 3 in mind and that's kind of how the 2 blend together.
So that's just something that we've come up with here in our programs, but I think it works perfectly.
So. Thank you guys. This was awesome. Super fun and I really appreciate everyone for all your participation.
I'll stick around for questions